---
Layout:
Title: "Github"
date: "2021-03-17"
---

# Introduction.
  
Today i will talk about GitHub pages, how to create it and what we use it for and how to use it or how it works.

# About GitHub Pages.

First you sign up for GitHub account once you've signed up, you log in to GitHub,com with username and password. Create a new public repository named username.GitHub.io where username is your username on GitHub. If the first part of of the repository doesn't exactly match your username on GitHub it won't work so make sure to get it right. Initialize this repository with a README file in your repo.
I am using linuxwhich use terminal on VS CODE so i will explain about how to use terminal. Open the termianl using the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl + /atl and T), create a folder where you want to store your project, and clone the new repository using GitHub URL.

To clone new repo you copy the link from new repo and then in the terminal you type the name of the folder pres enter then type git clone, space then paste the link press enter then it will clone. Then on the terminal you type the name of the folder starting with cd press enter then add index.html. 1. Type git add space dot (.) then press enter 2. Type git commit -m'' (inside the qoute write a message for waht you commiting) 3. Type git push.

Everytime you write a code or blogpost on the VS CODE, after writting you have to open termianl and use git status to check if the project you want to add is available then git add dot , git commit and git push to save your work.

# Conclusion.

To access the blogpost from GitHUb you need to open the blogpost folder select the page you want to view then click on setting, scroll down untill you find a link, click on the link it will direct you to your website then add blog.html to open the page.













