---
Layout: 
Title: "jQuery."
date: "2021-06-21"
---

# Introduction.

jQuery is one of the most widely used JavaScript libraries in the world.

In 2006 when it was released, all major browsers handled JavaScript slightly differently. jQuery simplified the process of writing client-side JavaScript, and also ensured that your code worked the same way in all browsers.

In this course, i learn how to use jQuery to select, remove, clone, and modify different elements on the page.

jQuery is a lightweight, "write less, do more", JavaScript library. The purpose of jQuery is to make it much easier to use JavaScript on your website. jQuery takes a lot of common tasks that require many lines of JavaScript code to accomplish, and wraps them into methods that you can call with a single line of code.

# Body.

## Explanation.

### Advantages of jQuery

Excellent API Documentation: jQuery provides excellent online API documentation. Cross-browser support: jQuery provides excellent cross-browser support without writing extra code. Unobtrusive: jQuery is unobtrusive which allows separation of concerns by separating html and jQuery code.

### What are the disadvantages of using jQuery?

The most critical disadvantage of jQuery is that it is a huge library to import. Another drawback is that jQuery's abstraction hides the complex parts of JavaScript, making learning JavaScript much more difficult.
jQuery DOM APIs are now obsolete.

### What is jQuery library used for?

jQuery is a JavaScript library designed to simplify HTML DOM tree traversal and manipulation, as well as event handling, CSS animation, and Ajax. It is free, open-source software using the permissive MIT License. As of May 2019, jQuery is used by 73% of the 10 million most popular websites.

### What is jQuery example?

jQuery uses CSS-style selectors to select parts, or elements, of an HTML page. ... Here's an example of a jQuery method that selects all paragraph elements, and adds a class of "selected" to them: <p>This is a paragraph selected by a jQuery method. </p> <p>This is also a paragraph selected by a jQuery method.

# Conclusion.

I enjoyed this JavaScript library and it was easy for me to follow the instruction to answer the questions. I think i just need to research more about it and learn also to apply it on the Website.
