---
Layout: 
Title: "React."
date: "2021-07-29"
---

# Introduction.

I haven't started with react but after today i will start doing freecodecamp react challange, what i want to do is to understand what is react and how can i use it.      

# Explanation.

## What is react.

React is a JavaScript library created for building fast and interactive user interfaces for web and mobile applications. It is an open-source, component-based, front-end library responsible only for the application’s view layer.

## Why React?

1.Easy creation of dynamic applications

React makes it easier to create dynamic web applications because it requires less coding and offers more functionality, as opposed to JavaScript, where coding often gets complex very quickly.

2.Improved performance

React uses Virtual DOM, thereby creating web applications faster. Virtual DOM compares the components’ previous states and updates only the items in the Real DOM that were changed, instead of updating all of the components again, as conventional web applications do. 

3.Reusable components

 Components are the building blocks of any React application, and a single app usually consists of multiple components. These components have their logic and controls, and they can be reused throughout the application, which in turn dramatically reduces the application’s development time.

4.Unidirectional data flow

 React follows a unidirectional data flow. This means that when designing a React app, developers often nest child components within parent components. Since the data flows in a single direction, it becomes easier to debug errors and know where a problem occurs in an application at the moment in question.

5.Small learning curve

 React is easy to learn, as it mostly combines basic HTML and JavaScript concepts with some beneficial additions. Still, as is the case with other tools and frameworks, you have to spend some time to get a proper understanding of React’s library.

6.It can be used for the development of both web and mobile apps

 We already know that React is used for the development of web applications, but that’s not all it can do. There is a framework called React Native, derived from React itself, that is hugely popular and is used for creating beautiful mobile applications. So, in reality, React can be used for making both web and mobile applications.

7.Dedicated tools for easy debugging

 Facebook has released a Chrome extension that can be used to debug React applications. This makes the process of debugging React web applications faster and easier.

