---
Layout: 
Title: "Package.json."
date: "2021-10-01"
---

# Introduction.

The first challenge i came across in back end development is how to use package.json the core of any Node.js project or npm package. i have used npm to create or install in react, i have seen package.json and Node.js before but i have no idea what they do. In this blog post i will share what is package.json.

# Body.

## Explanation.

### What is package json.

The package. json file is the heart of any Node project. It records important metadata about a project which is required before publishing to NPM, and also defines functional attributes of a project that npm uses to install dependencies, run scripts, and identify the entry point to our package.

### How does package json work.

All npm packages contain a file, usually in the project root, called package. json - this file holds various metadata relevant to the project. This file is used to give information to npm that allows it to identify the project as well as handle the project's dependencies.

### What should I put in package json.

A package. json file must contain "name" and "version" fields. The "name" field contains your package's name, and must be lowercase and one word, and may contain hyphens and underscores. The "version" field must be in the form x.x.x and follow the semantic versioning guidelines.

# Conclusion.

This is not all the information about package.json but this did help me a bit to understand package.json before i can even start the challenge in freeCodeCamp.